The baffler has a great article by Jake Bittle, ["I Feel Better Now"](https://thebaffler.com/latest/i-feel-better-now-bittle). Bittle situates the rise of therapeutic apps (like Moodnotes, Headspace, and Uplift) within the larger history of psychotherapy. Therapy has always seemed magical, and has always eluded the question of: does it work? Answering that, even for someone who has felt they've benefitted, can be "spiritually difficult to articulate." He gets to a key question: If apps can make the ineffable benefits of therapy accessible to more people, is there any issue? And the answer, of course, is that they may *not* work. There's split evidence that they provide tangible benefits.

But that's not actually the heart of the essay. Apps, he says, point to a problem *within us*. But what if the reason we're depressed isn't exclusively *within* us at all? What is major factors contributing to our depression are external? As Bittle writes:

> Brain chemistry and childhood trauma go a long way toward explaining a person’s particular struggles with mental health, but you could be forgiven for wondering whether there is also something larger at work here—whether the material arrangement of society itself, in other words, is contributing to a malaise that various authorities nevertheless encourage us to believe is exclusively individual. After all, as one meme has it, “we live in a society”: one that requires many of us to work inhumane hours without fair compensation or medical care; one that in the sparse gaps between those working hours bombards us with junk food, mass culture, demonstrably addictive social media, and the vague promise of incremental political reform; and one that, meanwhile, listens to our phone conversations, tracks our most minute movements, and recommends us purchase after purchase based on what we Google while on a bathroom breaks. A lucky few—mostly white males—reap the incalculable rewards of oil trading and angel investment while the rest of us remain broke, unhealthy, phone-addled, hopeless, and bored.

And that's the problem with apps that claim to benefit us spiritually. 

> "Though some apps may prescribe exercising, changing your diet, or even seeking professional psychiatric advice, they still ultimately suggest that your suffering starts and ends inside you, that it can always be mitigated or managed by a process of moral discipline and self-awareness.

He concludes with this powerful prompt:

> There are many things about our daily lives that we are powerless to control, many injustices so enormous and obvious they might never show up in our mood journals. We have at least as many problems that can be solved by looking outward as problems that can be solved by looking inward.